Expressjs is all about middleware and you see a diagram here,
in the end middleware means that an incoming request is automatically funneled through a bunch of functions
by expressjs,
so instead of just having one request handler, you will actually have a possibility of hooking in multiple
functions which the request will go through until you send a response.
This allows you to split your code into multiple blocks or pieces instead of having one huge function
that does everything
and this is the pluggable nature of expressjs, where you can easily add other third party packages
which simply happen to give you such middleware functions that you can plug into expressjs and add
certain functionalities
but more on that later.
So this is a core concept of expressjs,
the middleware and we can use that by going here after we created the app object
but before we passed it to create server and then we can use the app and call a method which is defined
by the express framework,
use. Use allows us to add a new middleware function, now the use method is pretty flexible,
it accepts an array of so-called request handlers here and it has some other use cases too.
Now one easy way of using it is that you simply pass a function to it and this function here, this function
you pass to app use will be executed for every incoming request and this function will receive three arguments,
the request and the response object
as you already know it basically with some extra tricks learned though and a third argument which is
the next argument.
Now you can rename any of these arguments but what do they do?
Request and response as I just mentioned are basically what you know with some extra features.
Next is actually a function, a function that will be passed to this function by expressjs
and this can be confusing because you are passing a function as an argument to the use method and
this function you're passing is receiving yet another function here on the next argument
and this next argument, basically this function you're receiving here has to be executed to allow the
request to travel on to the next middleware.
Now let me show you what I mean.
We can simply console log in the middleware here, like this,
now since I have nodemon this automatically restarts the server
and let's now go to the browser and reload localhost 3000.
Now actually this will keep on spinning, you see,
so we don't get a response which makes sense because we've got no logic where we would send one, in the
console here at the bottom, you see in the middleware though,
so this did execute, this is what I meant,
this allows us to hook into this funnel through which the request is sent.
If I duplicate this and I add another use statement here in another middleware and I save this and
let it restart therefore and I now reload this page here on localhost 3000, then I see in the middleware
here again and I see it twice because I pressed reload twice in my case here
but I don't see in another middleware.
Now the reason for that is that we have to call next here to allow the request to travel on to the next
middleware in line.
So it basically goes from top to bottom
through that file you could say, through all the middleware functions but only if we call next, if we don't call
next it just dies,
so if we don't call next, we should actually send back a response because otherwise the request can't
continue its journey,
so it will never reach a place where we might send a response
but if we also don't send one here, well then we never send one.
So now with this next call added, we actually make it into this middleware and we should therefore see this
console log
and here we could then even send a response. We'll do this as a next step because sending responses
also changed a bit.
So restarted the server, reload that page and now you see in the middleware and in another middleware
thanks to next.
So this allows the request to continue to the next middleware in, whoops middleware in line which is the middleware
below this one.
So this is a crucial concept, this ideas of middleware
and you can use any function that has this format, so that receives request, response and next.
And you should call next if you want to allow the request to go to the next function,
you should send a response if you got other plans, so let's send a response in this middleware in
the next lecture.